# Twin Istanbul - A digital twin project for smart cities

**Acknowledgement -** *Twin Istanbul Project is developed during the [Sustainability Hackathon for Smart Cities](https://surdurulebilirsehirler.ist) with the support of [Microsoft Turkey](https://www.microsoft.com/tr-tr) and [Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM)](http://ibb.istanbul/). Special thanks to them for organizing this event!*

<h4> Abstract </h4> The condition of roads, bridges, metro lines and other transportation components greatly influences the economy’s ability to function and grow. While metropols are keeping growing, it is very challenging to maintain them at scale for crowds. Public resources are scarce and it is very hard to manage investments accordingly. In this project, it is aimed to establish a digital twin of istanbul transportation network. Project is the intersects with the current <a href="https://www.ibb.istanbul/Uploads/2020/2/iBB-STRATEJIK-PLAN-2020-2024.pdf">Strategic Plan of the IMM</a> about making Istanbul accessible and smart. Moreover, it will strengthens and accelerates the digital transformation in the city administration. 

<h4> Problem Description </h4> Istanbul is the most crowded city in the Europe with its more than 15 million population. Chronic traffic congestion, rising motorization, overloaded public transit services, and air and noise pollution are all issues that urban transportation is struggling with. With an unusual public events such as sport competitons, concerts and crowd event mobility is increasing and the challenge is getting hard. From 2016 to 2022, more than US$ 36 Billion spent to large transportation projects such as Euroasia Tunnel, Grand Istanbul Tunnel, 3rd bosphorus bridge and more. However; clean and sustainable transport modes for Istanbul, e.g. cycling, walking and public transportations are not effectively used and still far from the objective. According to <a href="https://assets.new.siemens.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:fddc99e7-5907-49aa-92c4-610c0801659e/european-green-city-index.pdf"> European Green City Index</a>, Istanbul is 16th at CO2 emission rank, 23th at urban transportation index and 23th air quality measure across 30 european country. In order to make Istanbul more sustainable and green, there is a need for comprehensive strategic plan and infrastructural investments. 

<h4> Available Solutions </h4> Currently, investments and projects are planning according to travel demand. In the transport literature, the approach is called "predict and provide" and it is unsustainable, static and inefficent. Moreover, plans and projects depend on managers who are continously changed due to nature of politics. Data-driven approaches are being developed in recent years, there are many approaches that recognize patterns in individual mobility and activity choices, build large scale networks, made analysis of spatiotemporal dataset, forecast road traffic and travel demand, develop recommendation algoithms for smart routing and trip planning. However, current data-driven strategies are not continous and mostly human-made. Simulations require advanced platforms and large amount of data, which are not exist most of times. Also, urban planning is very complex task and events are consequently related each other. The Director of Strategy Development Department in IETT stated that the crowded bus and minibus services encourage people to own and use more cars, which causes more traffic congestion. On the other hand, private transportation services are profit-focused and not tend to support a capacity increase due to potential fall.

<h4> Proposed Model </h4> We are proposing a digital twin concept to plan and organize public decisions with the involvement of citizens democratically. <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/digital-twins"> Azure Digital Twin Description Langauge </a> will be used to declare and deploy Twin Istanbul. At first, transportation data will be used to conduct domain-spesific digital twin. We believe Digital Twin is promising concept to create a framework make data-driven decision framework. It will enables future planning, development, and data analytic. More importantly, It will give decison-makers more insight about the city itself, such as how smart city utilities are distributed and consumed. In order to achieve that, Open Data Portal by IMM will be used. In this platform, IMM releases public data about Istanbul for citizens and especially developers. There are more than 90 dataset about mobility and more are available upon request. According to <a href="https://www.ibb.istanbul/Uploads/2020/2/iBB-STRATEJIK-PLAN-2020-2024.pdf"> Strategic Plan of the IMM <a> - A1H7, it is aimed to develop 3D digital model of Istanbul, increase available dataset in Open Data Portal and complete geopraphical data infrasturce. 

<h4> Product Value nad Widespread Impact</h4>

<h4> Conclusion and Future Work </h4>




